---
layout: post
title: "Against-Naturlism: where is the spirit?"
date: 2025-06-19
categories: Philosophy
---

"It is fair to say that the fundamental ambition of German Idealism (including Kant) is an overall theory of human rationality and its place in nature.
How is it possible to make sense of our first-person, engaged point of view in light of the anonymizing pressure modern philosophy ascribes to the ever-increasing influence of natural-scientific discoveries on our self-image as animalia rationalia?
German Idealism is a response to the naturalistic challenge that takes naturalism very seriously."
(Gabriel, M. and Rasmussen, A. M. (Eds.). (2017). German Idealism Today. Berlin: De Gruyter, p.vii)

Although there is a strong refutation of the second sentence of this argument (*), we can say that the claim is still partially true.
One of the biggest issues in Hegelian philosophy is discerning the element of the so-called "spirit" within or without the all-encompassing nature that modern scientists consciously or unconsciously presuppose.
According to Hegel, the space—or more precisely, the quasi-space—of the spirit lies in the minimal difference between cognizing nature and cognized nature.
For Hegel, who had thoroughly read Spinoza, it was obvious and irrefutable that nature encompasses everything;
therefore, the true problem was how to defend the existence of spirit while maintaining the monistic character of nature. 
For someone who thought in this way, it would have been unsatisfying that Kant seemingly and naively was presupposing a rigid dualism between the phenomenal and the intelligible worlds.

(*)The distinction between Naturphilosophie and empirical science, which has been the cornerstone of the positivist interpretation, is not only anachronistic but deeply question-begging, because most Naturphilosophen would not have accepted the distinction between the a priori and the empirical that became so prevalent in nineteenth-century science and philosophy.
(Beiser, F. C. (Ed.). (2008). The Cambridge Companion to Hegel and Nineteenth-Century Philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, p. 11)
