---
layout: post
title: "Several Modes of Recognition"
date: 2025-05-30
categories: Philosophy
---

1. Recognition as a source of objectivity

"our certainty that what we perceive has an existence independent of the act of perceiving depends entirely on the object's also appearing as such to others and being acknowledged by them. 
Without this tacit acknowledgment by others, we would not even be able to put faith in the way we appear to ourselves 
(Arendt, H. (1977–1978). The Life of the Mind. San Diego: Harcourt, Inc. Vol. 1. p. 46)."

2. Recognition as a source of humanity

"It is the inter-subjectivity of the world, rather than similarity of physical appearance, that convinces men that they belong to the same species 
(Arendt, H. (1977–1978). The Life of the Mind. San Diego: Harcourt, Inc. Vol. 1. p. 50). " 
This profound insight reveals not only why one regards another as a member of the same species, but also why one can so easily dismiss the other's individuality and commit acts of mass violence. 
"Some lives are grievable, and others are not"
(Butler, J. (2004). Precarious life: the powers of mourning and violence. London: Verso, p. xiv.). 
"both our political and ethical responsibilities are rooted in the recognition" (p. xiii). 
The concept of human rights is inherently fragile, as it inevitably depends on mutual recognition.

Mutual recognition also functions as a means of censorship.
"To decide what views will count as reasonable within the public domain, however, is to decide what will and will not count as the public sphere of debate. [...]
The foreclosure of critique empties the public domain of debate and democratic contestation itself, so that debate becomes the exchange of views among the like-minded, and criticism, which ought to be central to any democracy, becomes a fugitive and suspect activity"
(Butler, J. (2004). Precarious life: the powers of mourning and violence. London: Verso, p. xx.). 
Nonetheless, we should not conclude from this argument that mutual recognition is merely exclusive.  
On the contrary, we should say that this exclusiveness of censorship is merely based on a fragile recognition relationship.  
That is, this exclusiveness is not fully fixed — logically speaking, it can be revised at any time.
