---
layout: post
title: "Imperial Regime and recognition of states"
date: 2025-05-30
categories: philosophy, recognition
---

"adequate recognition can only be achieved within an institutionalized order of rights that secures genuinely mutual recognition (Williams 1997, 59–68).
Hegel develops this latter thought most systematically in his mature Philosophy of Right"
(Iser, M. (2013: 2019). Recognition. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.)
Although Mattias Iser argues this way, the pure form of mutual recognition should be observed not at the national institutional level, but at the international level.

Hegel pointed out in the *Philosophy of Right* that the pure theory of recognition should be applied not to individuals in modern society, but to states in international relations.
Individuals in modern society are restricted by written laws, not only by mutual recognition.  
In contrast, international law is intrinsically unenforceable, that is, not as strict as domestic law, in the sense that there is no transcendent authority such as a court or a judge.
Nevertheless, international relations are not necessarily chaotic; rather, they are orderly due to the normative power that arises from the mutual recognition among states.  
In this sense, international relations are fundamentally dependent on mutual recognition.
This is precisely what Hegel pointed out.

There are roughly two types of recognitive relations: vertical and horizontal.  
An example of a vertical relation is an imperial regime.
This does not necessarily imply that there is a real empire. Butler wrote,
"Contemporary forms of national sovereignty constitute efforts to overcome an impressionability and violability that are ineradicable dimensions of human dependency and sociality."
(Butler, J. (2004). Precarious life: the powers of mourning and violence. London: Verso, xiv)
Butler did not mean that contemporary nation-states (especially the United States) are trying to become independent from other nation-states.  
What is implied here is that these nation-states are becoming increasingly ignorant of others on whom they fundamentally depend for their survival.

